---
layout: /layouts/blogpost.njk
title: 100 milligrams, $10 copay
description: I turn 23 in less than a month. I wish I knew what else to say.
date: 2024-01-26
permalink: blog/posts/2024-01-26-100milligrams.html
---
<p><small><em>note: this post was originally from our stillness, a now defunct blogging project.</em></small></p>
<p>I turn 23 in less than a month. I wish I knew what else to say.<br><br>All I know is that I hate odd
	numbers. 21 was okay because there was some rite of passage associated with it, but my worst years have
	been during odd numbers. I think this is what I get for being born seven months before
	9/11.<br><br>There isn&apos;t even enough of a coincidence for this to be a matter of
	superstition&mdash;18 and 20 were rough for me too. 23 is just such a grating number to me. It feels
	incomplete. I&apos;m certain I&apos;m autistic.<br><br>I&apos;m trying to make it through the rest of
	January. I&apos;m hoping February will be kinder. It usually is. There&apos;s less days to wait for.</p>
<br>
<hr>
<p><br>The urge to do something drastic to my appearance is festering again, and I know for a fact that
	it&apos;s because I haven&apos;t perceived any positive change that would ease my anxiety over my
	stagnation. In college, it was easy because I would just write a spiteful article and get full credit or
	whatever, but now I just have myself and the meritless world around me. It&apos;s self-sustaining and
	it&apos;s fucking terrifying.<br><br>I would be lying if I said I didn&apos;t miss the security of being
	a big fish in a small, delusional pond. I&apos;m certain I endured much more then&mdash;with what
	18-unit semesters and two part-time jobs I put myself through&mdash;but the work was gameable, and the
	rewards were tangible.<br><br>I don&apos;t know what value comes from anything I do now. Am I stupid for
	wanting to believe that the value lies in the fact that what I do had mattered to me at some point? Am I
	stupid for wanting to believe that is enough to continue? I don&apos;t think it&apos;s possible. I
	can&apos;t allow myself to care about what I make unless someone else cares.<br><br>There has been a lot
	of change. I&apos;m moving out again. I&apos;m grieving my best friend. I got health insurance and
	updated my Zoloft dosage for the first time in four years.<br><br>I&apos;m turning 23, and I will be
	someone else again.</p>